docs(useSubscription): add docs page for `useSubscription` (#5442)
medplum/medplum: packages/docs/docs/react/use-subscription.md

---

> sidebar_position: 3

Reviewer: Not sure what's up with the sidebar order, but this page currently shows up first in the preview — we may want to check the numbering for all pages in this section and make sure they're sensible

Author: The numbering is kind of arbitrary indicator of roughly what order the pages should appear in. 3 is technically first right now but adding an actual 1 would demote its position since 1 is obviously lower. 

I haven't seen a clear way for deciding the numbers, to me it's kinda like hinting "this should probably go last even if there are more pages in the future". 🤷 Maybe should do some research on what other projects do

tags:
  - subscription
---

# `useSubscription` Hook

> `useSubscription` creates an in-memory `Subscription` resource with the given criteria on the Medplum server and calls the 
> given callback when an event notification is triggered by a resource interaction over a WebSocket connection.

Reviewer: Minor suggestion for clarity/reducing run-on sentence
```suggestion
`useSubscription` creates an in-memory `Subscription` resource on the Medplum server with the given criteria and calls the 
given callback when an event notification is triggered.
```

Subscriptions created with this hook are lightweight, share a single WebSocket connection per instance of `MedplumClient`, and are automatically 
untracked and cleaned up when the containing component is no longer mounted.

## Use Cases

The `useSubscription` hook is a powerful tool for creating applications that require the client to wait for events asynchronously from the server.

Some examples include:
- Live chat
- Notification badges for tasks
- Realtime analytics dashboards

> The semantics of the hook make it extremely simple to subscribe to events for resource interactions that satisfy a specified criteria and act

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hook makes it extremely simple to listen for resource interactions that satisfy a specified criteria and act
```

on them reactively, rather than having to poll via expensive search requests on a timer.

## Usage

> The `useSubscription` hook takes a [FHIR search criteria](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/search.html) and a callback function to call when a resource interaction

Reviewer: I would suggest linking to our own page instead (`/docs/search/basic-search`), which itself links to the FHIR spec

that satisfies the Subscription occurs.

```tsx
function MyComponent(): JSX.Element {
  const [notificationCount, setNotificationCount] = useState(0);

  useSubscription(
    'Communication?sender=Practitioner/abc-123&recipient=Practitioner/me-456', 
    (bundle: Bundle) => {
      console.log('Received a message from Practitioner/abc-123!');
      handleNotificationBundle(bundle); // Do something with the bundle
      setNotificationCount(s => s + 1);
    }
  );

  return <div>Notifications received: {notificationCount}</div>;
}
```

### Parsing the Subscription `Bundle`

The callback receives a `Bundle` which contains a `SubscriptionStatus` as its first entry (`bundle.entry[0].resource`) 

> and the resource for which the `Subscription` fired for in its second entry (`bundle.entry[1].resource`).

Reviewer: It might be more useful to give a full example of the JSON received by the callback, showing what both Bundle entries actually look like
